[FLINK-35314][cdc] Add Flink CDC pipeline transform user document (#3308)
apache/flink-cdc: docs/content/docs/core-concept/transform.md

Reviewer: Maybe copy this file content to Chinese version documents as well? Seems other docs lacking Chinese translation have English version fallback as well.

**Transform** module helps users delete and expand data columns based on the data columns in the table.      
What's more, it also helps users filter some unnecessary data during the synchronization process.

# Parameters

> To describe a transform, the follows are required:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To describe a transform rule, the following parameters can be used:
```

| Parameter    | Meaning                                            | Optional/Required |
|--------------|----------------------------------------------------|-------------------|
| source-table | Source table id, supports regular expressions      | required          |
| projection   | Projection rule, supports syntax similar to the select clause in SQL        | optional          |
| filter       | Filter rule, supports syntax similar to the where clause in SQL        | optional          |

> | primary-keys | Sink table primary keys, it is separated by English commas        | optional          |
> | partition-keys | Sink table partition keys, it is separated by English commas        | optional          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| primary-keys | Sink table primary keys, separated by commas        | optional          |
| partition-keys | Sink table partition keys, separated by commas        | optional          |
```

> | table-options | Sink table options, when automatically creating a table, it is added to the configuration of the table creation statement  | optional          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| table-options | Sink table options, used to the configure table creation statement when automatically creating tables  | optional          |
```

> | description  | Transform rule description(a default value provided) | optional          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| description  | Transform rule description (a default description will be used if not specified) | optional          |
```

Does it mean if user didn't specify a transform description, CDC will generate a default one to indicate that transform rule?

> A transform module can contain a list of source-table rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple rules can be declared in one single pipeline YAML file.
```

# Metadata Fields
## Fields definition

> There are three hidden columns used to describe metadata information. They only take effect when explicitly referenced in the transform rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some hidden columns used to access metadata information. They will only take effect when explicitly referenced in the transform rules.
```

| Field               | Data Type | Description                                                     |
|--------------------|-----------|--------------------------------------------------------------|

> | __namespace_name__ | String    | Name of the namespace that contain the row.                  |
> | __schema_name__    | String    | Name of the schema that contain the row.                     |
> | __table_name__     | String    | Name of the table that contain the row.                      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| __namespace_name__ | String    | Name of the namespace that contains the row.                  |
| __schema_name__    | String    | Name of the schema that contains the row.                     |
| __table_name__     | String    | Name of the table that contains the row.                      |
```

## Metadata relationship

| Type                 | Namespace | SchemaName | Table |
|----------------------|-----------|------------|-------|
| JDBC                 | Catalog   | Schema     | Table |
| Debezium             | Catalog   | Schema     | Table |
| MySQL                | Database  | -          | Table |
| Postgres             | Database  | Schema     | Table |
| Oracle               | -         | Schema     | Table |

> | Microsoft SQL Server | Database  | Schema     | Table |

Reviewer: Does pipeline connectors support all these connectors for now?

| StarRocks            | Database  | -          | Table |
| Doris                | Database  | -          | Table |

# Functions

> Using Calcite to implement function parsing, and using Janino script to implement function calls.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Flink CDC uses [Calcite](https://calcite.apache.org/) to parse expressions and [Janino script](https://www.janino.net/) to evaluate expressions with function call.
```

## Comparison Functions

| Function             | Janino Code                 | Description                                                     |
|----------------------|-----------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------|

> | value1 = value2      | valueEquals(value1, value2) | Returns TRUE if value1 is equal to value2; returns FALSE if value1 or value2 is NULL. |

Reviewer: It would be nice to put code pieces in backslashes like `value1 = value2`, but not necessarily required. Ignore this comment if it takes too much effort.

| CASE value WHEN value1_1 [, value1_2]* THEN RESULT1 (WHEN value2_1 [, value2_2 ]* THEN result_2)* (ELSE result_z) END | Nested ternary expression | Returns resultX when the first time value is contained in (valueX_1, valueX_2, …). When no value matches, returns result_z if it is provided and returns NULL otherwise. |
| CASE WHEN condition1 THEN result1 (WHEN condition2 THEN result2)* (ELSE result_z) END | Nested ternary expression | Returns resultX when the first conditionX is met. When no condition is met, returns result_z if it is provided and returns NULL otherwise. |
| COALESCE(value1 [, value2]*) | coalesce(Object... objects) | Returns the first argument that is not NULL.If all arguments are NULL, it returns NULL as well. The return type is the least restrictive, common type of all of its arguments. The return type is nullable if all arguments are nullable as well. |
| IF(condition, true_value, false_value)   | condition ? true_value : false_value | Returns the true_value if condition is met, otherwise false_value. E.g., IF(5 > 3, 5, 3) returns 5. |

# Example
## Add computed columns

> If add two computed columns to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Evaluation expressions can be used to generate new columns. For example, if we want to append two computed columns based on the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id, UPPER(product_name) as product_name, localtimestamp as new_timestamp

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: append calculated columns based on source table
```

```

## Reference metadata columns

> If add a metadata columns to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We may reference metadata column in projection expressions. For example, given a table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id, __namespace_name__ || '.' || __schema_name__ || '.' || __table_name__ identifier_name

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: access metadata columns from source table
```

```

> ## Use star instead of all fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Use wildcard character to project all fields
```

> If use star instead of all fields in the table `web_order` and  `app_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A wildcard character (`*`) can be used to reference all fields in a table. For example, given two tables `web_order` and `app_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: \*, UPPER(product_name) as product_name

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: project fields with wildcard character from source table
```

  - source-table: mydb.app_order
    projection: UPPER(product_name) as product_name, *

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: project fields with wildcard character from source table
```

```

> Tips: When the star is at the beginning of the rule, a backslash needs to be added for escape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice: When `*` character presents at the beginning of expressions, an escaping backslash is required.
```

## Add filter rule

> Use reference columns when adding filtering rules to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use reference columns when adding filtering rules to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    filter: id > 10 AND order_id > 100

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: filtering rows from source table
```

```

> Use computed columns when adding filtering rules to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Computed columns can be used in filtering conditions, too. For example, given a table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id, UPPER(province) as new_province 
    filter: new_province = 'SHANGHAI'

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: filtering rows based on computed columns
```

```

## Reassign primary key

> If reassign primary key to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can reassign the primary key in transform rules. For example, given a table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id
    primary-keys: order_id

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: reassign primary key example
```

```

> If reassign composite primary key to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Composite primary keys are also supported:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id, UPPER(product_name) as product_name

>     primary-keys: order_id,product_name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    primary-keys: order_id, product_name
```

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: reassign composite primary keys example
```

```

## Reassign partition key

> If reassign partition key to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: We can reassign the partition key in transform rules. For example, given a table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id, UPPER(product_name) as product_name
    partition-keys: product_name

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: reassign partition key example
```

```

## Specify table creation configuration

> If specify the options to the table `web_order` in the database `mydb` when auto create table, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extra options can be defined in a transform rule, and will be applied when creating downstream tables. Given a table `web_order` in the database `mydb`, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id, UPPER(product_name) as product_name
    table-options: comment=web order

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: auto creating table options example
```

```
Tips: The format of table-options is `key1=value1,key2=value2`.

## Classification mapping

> Perform different processing on different classification data within a table, we can use this yaml file to define this transform：

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Multiple transform rules can be defined to classify input data rows and apply different processings. For example, we may define a transform rule as follows:
```

```yaml
transform:
  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: id, order_id
    filter: UPPER(province) = 'SHANGHAI'

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: classification mapping example
```

  - source-table: mydb.web_order
    projection: order_id as id, id as order_id
    filter: UPPER(province) = 'BEIJING'

>     description: project fields from source table

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: classification mapping example
```

```

> # Problem

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Known limitations
```

> · Transform cannot be used with route in the current version, future versions will support it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Currently, transform doesn't work with route rules. It will be supported in future versions.
```

> · The computed column does not support referencing the trimmed original column in the current version, future versions will support it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Computed columns cannot reference trimmed columns that do not present in final projection results. This will be fixed in future versions.
```
